Microservices on OpenShift v3
-----------------------

According to Martin Fowler, microservices "is an approach to developing a single
application as a suite of small services, each running in its own process and
communicating with lightweight mechanisms, often an HTTP resource API. These
services are built around business capabilities and independently deployable by
fully automated deployment machinery. There is a bare minimum of centralized
management of these services, which may be written in different programming
languages and use different data storage technologies."
(http://martinfowler.com/articles/microservices.html)
That definition sounds very promising and makes you think about miscroservices
architecture as something very easy. But is it really that simple to create such
services? If you think about each of the pieces separately then maybe the answer
is "yes", but what about that moment when your project grows into more than 5 tasks?
What about deploying them into tens, hundreds or thousands of instances? What about
rolling out a new release of a single component or even dozens of them?

You can see that the problem becomes very complex, very quickly. But now can you
imagine a world where doing such complex tasks will be as easy as pressing one
button (or invoking one command for CLI nerds ;))? If that sounds interesting to
you, come join me and I'll show you the amazing features and possibilities the
brand new OpenShift v3 has to offer.

I don't like talking too much about ideas; I prefer live action. This means the
major part of my presentation will be live demo where you'll be able to see how
easy it is to run OpenShift by yourself and leverage its features to simplify your
processes making both your development and operational team happy.

Still not impressed? Checkout this demo of ours https://youtu.be/FAJsx1HxsuM?t=2279
and don't hesitate!

Abstract:
1. What are miscroservices (5 min)
  * Definition
  * Development of microservices
  * Deployment of microservices
1. OpenShift v3 (15 min)
  * Docker - what is and how to use it (1 min)
  * Kubernetes - architecture (4 min)
  * OpenShift v3 - architecture (8 min)
  * Sample workflow (2 min)
1. Live demo (10 min)
